---
layout: post
title: "CppCon 2014 Notes"
categories: article
tags: cpp, c++, type, template, performance, javascript
---

## Type Deduction and Why You Care

**Scott Meyer**

+ <code>auto</code> will create a new object, which is a by-value copy.
+ "A brace initializer has no type", (Scott repeated this sentence for thousands of times). That said, sometimes automatic type deduction using brace initializers will fail. Yet, using <code>auto</code> keyword will handle this point. C++ 14 is out. C++ 17 is on the way.
+ <code>auto x1={17}</code> and <code>auto x1 {17}</code> will be different in C++ 17, though now they are the same in most compilers except Visual C++.
+
One hand,
{% highlight c++ %}
  {
    const int cx = 0;
    auto lambda = [cx]{...};
  }
  // the lambda function will be compiled to following
  class UpToTheCompiler {
    private:
      const int ca; // one of the rare case where compilers will store the value differently
  }
{% endhighlight %}
On the other hand,
{% highlight c++ %}
  {
    const int cx = 0;
    auto lambda = [ca = cx]{...};
  }
  // On the other hand, the lambda function will be compiled to following
  class UpToTheCompiler {
    private:
      int ca;
  }
{% endhighlight %}
+ Don't use type id.
+ <code>auto</code> uses template deduction, not reference; <code>decltype<auto></code> is a reference type.
+ On <code>decltype</code>
{% highlight c++ %}
 decltype(auto) function {
   return (expression); // reference to local variable; behavior undefined !!!
 }
{% endhighlight %}
+ **Be cautious** to use return type deduction because it requires the reader to understand the rules.
+ Further readings: [Effective Modern C++: 42 Specific Ways to Improve Your Use of C++11 and C++14](http://www.amazon.com/Effective-Modern-Specific-Ways-Improve/dp/1491903996)
+ (Saw **Andrei Alexandrescu** and **Bjarne Stroustrup** at the end of the talk)

## Emscripten and asm.js: C++'s role in the modern web

**Alon Zakai**

+ It uses clang C++ as the frontend, also takes LLVM optimizer, libc++, libc++abi. That said, this project supports the C++ syntax whatever clang supports. (I asked what is the known not supported feature, Alon mentioned multi-threading was one of the few.)
+ It also implements SDL and OpenGL etc.
+ The style of the compiled code is **asm.js**.
+ Challenges: C++ has undefined behaviors. Compilers are permitted to utilize them. Javascript doesn't have undefined behaviors. All behaviors (though sometimes unreasonable, in my opinion) should behave the same across platforms.
+ Javascript applications must ship their own system libraries together.
+ During the development, **fuzzing** and [csmith](http://embed.cs.utah.edu/csmith/) are used for testing. 
+ Right now there are almost no known bugs for Emscripten. (WOW!!!)

##  How Facebook's HHVM Uses Modern C++ for Fun and Profit (Literally)

**Drew Paroski**

+ With the help of HHVM, it runs 10 times faster and there is 75% reduction in memeory.
+ PHP -> typed intermidiated representation (typed IR) -> x64 code
+ CPU work: HHVM runtime, PHP interpreter, machine code execution
+ It generates C++ templates code as the target, or as the process of "compilation".
+ **Profiling**, "Linux's perf is awesome". It keeps track of the full call stack of PHP; it uses sampling to test.
+ It uses rbp-chain to walk the call stack.
+ C++ , -fno-omit-frame-pointer flag may be helpful.
+ Try **jemalloc** instead of regular **melloc**s.
+ MADV_HUGEPAGE for TLB hardware.
+ Inclusive time sometimes is needed. (When profiling in most cases, CPU time is exclusive.)
+ Who pollutes the cache is more important than who suffers the cache pollution. (The first question is much harder to answer.)
+ Facebook in-house **memcpy** implementation rooted here.

##  Defensive Programming Done Right

**John Lakos**

+ How to address client misuse as a library developer?
+ Try [bsls assert](https://github.com/bloomberg/bde bsls_assert).
+ It controls how to handle undefined behaviors and has a finer CPU utilization control.
+ <code>BSLS_ASSERT_SAFE</code> will kick in if someone only turns it on.
+ There are three different types of assertions, <code>BSLS_ASSERT_SAFE</code>, <code>BSLS_ASSERT</code>, and <code>BSLS_ASSERT_OPT</code>. Basically, <code>BSLS_ASSERT_SAFE</code> is for inline calls, <code>BSLS_ASSERT</code> for most general uses, and <code>BSLS_ASSERT_OPT</code> for extreme time critical cases.
+ There are two separate notions of undefined behaviors. Language undefined behaviors are "hard" undefined behaviors; library undefined behaviors are "soft" undefined behaviors, which are breaking the contract.
+ John quoted "Anything can happen: Your program can crash (or not), your computer can explode, your cat can get pregnant, etc." by **Marshall Clow**. (**Marshall Clow** added, "Anything can happen. My name missed an L!". John then quickly corrected his slides on the fly.)
+ Sometimes the compiler cannot see the assertions. That said, the compiler can do extreme optimizations resulting in breaking the contract, though by a first look from a programer perspective, the logic of code seems correct.
+ Use <code>BSLS_ASSERT*_IS_ACTIVE</code> macros for release/debug mode.
+ John said, "If you think testing is boring, negative testing is boring-er!". (He was right. I nodded off for this part.)
+ Think for yourself. Why would we test undefined behaviors? How can we test them, if undefined?
+ Defensive programming is fault IN-TOLERANCE.

##  Efficiency with Algorithms, Performance with Data Structures

**Chandler Carruth**

+ Making faster programs saves the battery.
+ Not used processors are wasting power.
+ Substring searching example to demonstrate what is fast in practices.
+ Don't pass pointers in for return values.
+ **SAY NO** to linked list. Every step is a cache miss.
+ Just use vectors.
+ [Latency Numbers Every Programmer Should Know](https://gist.github.com/jboner/2841832)
+ <code>std::map</code> is even worse. Unordered map will not save us either.
+ Good hash table design: Local probing, no buckets, small keys, and open addressing. If values are large, one can chase the pointers. That is worth the cost.
+ You have to keep both factors in mind to balance. Sometimes worse is better. Bubble sorting is the fastest when dealing 30 or 40 elements. Cuckoo hashing is asymptotically perfect and has many beautiful properties. Yet, each hit in cuckoo hashtable is a cache miss, which means it is really slow in practices.
+ Rule of thumb: use contiguous dense data structures.
